New Image management API (#2624)
garden-co/jazz: homepage/homepage/content/docs/using-covalues/imagedef/react.mdx

import { CodeGroup } from "@/components/forMdx";

export const metadata = {

>   description: "ImageDefinition is a CoValue for store images with bult-in UX features."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: "ImageDefinition is a CoValue for storing images with built-in UX features."
```

};

# ImageDefinition

> `ImageDefinition` is a specialized CoValue designed specifically for managing images in Jazz applications. It extends beyond basic file storage by supporting blurry placeholder, a built-in max size resizing, and progressive loading patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ImageDefinition` is a specialized CoValue designed specifically for managing images in Jazz applications. It extends beyond basic file storage by supporting a blurry placeholder, built-in resizing, and progressive loading patterns.
```

```
</CodeGroup>

If the image was generated with progressive loading, the `width` and `height` props will determine the best resolution to use.

### Imperative usage

Like other CoValues, `ImageDefinition` can be used to load the object.

<CodeGroup>
```tsx
import { ImageDefinition } from "jazz-tools";

const image = await ImageDefinition.load("123", {
  resolve: {
    original: true,
  },
});

console.log({
  originalSize: image.originalSize,
  placeholderDataUrl: image.placeholderDataUrl,
  original: image.original, // this FileStream may be not loaded yet
});
```
</CodeGroup>

`image.original` is a `FileStream` and its content can be read as described in the [FileStream](/docs/react/using-covalues/filestreams#reading-from-filestreams) documentation.

Since FileStream objects are also CoValues, they must be loaded before use. To simplify loading, if you want to load the binary data saved as Original, you can use the `loadImage` function.

<CodeGroup>
```ts
import { loadImage } from "jazz-tools/media";

const image = await loadImage(imageDefinitionOrId);

console.log({
  width: image.width,
  height: image.height,
  image: image.image,
});
```
</CodeGroup>

> If the image was generated with progressive loading, and you want to access the best resolution, `loadImageBySize` function is here the utility function you need. It will load the image of the best resolution that fits the wanted width and height.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the image was generated with progressive loading, and you want to access the best-fit resolution, use `loadImageBySize`. It will load the image of the best resolution that fits the wanted width and height.
```

<CodeGroup>
```ts
import { loadImageBySize } from "jazz-tools/media";

const image = await loadImageBySize(imageDefinitionOrId, 600, 600);

console.log({
  width: image.width,
  height: image.height,
  image: image.image,
});
```
</CodeGroup>

But you know, the CoValue are alive and they will change over time. If want to listen to the changes and retrieve the best resolution _loaded_ that fits the wanted width and height, you can use the `subscribe` and the `highestResAvailable` function.

<CodeGroup>
```ts
import { ImageDefinition } from "jazz-tools";
// ---cut---
// function highestResAvailable(image: ImageDefinition, wantedWidth: number, wantedHeight: number): FileStream | null
import { highestResAvailable } from "jazz-tools/media";

const image = await ImageDefinition.load("123");

image.subscribe({}, (image) => {
  const bestImage = highestResAvailable(image, 600, 600);
  if(bestImage) {
    // bestImage is again a FileStream
    const blob = bestImage.toBlob();
    if(blob) {
      const url = URL.createObjectURL(blob);
      // ...
    }
  }
});
```
</CodeGroup>

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add a section here about how to create "resized *copies*" of an image?

something like `createImage(await existing.toBlob(), { maxSize: 500 })` (pseudo-code)
